Narratives: 

Software Design:

As I mentioned in my code review, I was working on this project quite some time ago and never 
actually got around to finishing it. So, for this piece, since I started out with a very good 
foundation in the software design element, I focused on adding comments and making sure everything 
was detailed as needed. I added some enhancement to the Application.java script to include a search 
bar as well as a function that will allow users of the application to search for other resources 
present in the database. The reason this was needed was to incorporate additional functionality 
comparable to a traditional search engine. I selected this item because I was already familiar with 
the code and I believe that it properly represents everything that we were supposed to do for this 
capstone. As of right now, all of the objectives I mentioned during milestone one have been included 
and built upon which will assist in insuring that my project is as well put together as possible 
within the 8-week course. I believe that implementing the factors mentioned, specifically the search 
bar was a bit challenging. I couldn’t initially get the function to work as I needed, but ultimately, 
I was successful. I also learned how to properly comment, and it also helped emphasize why I should’ve 
made these comments originally when working on this project. 

Algorithm:

Similar to my last submission, this is a project that I was building quite some time ago that I decided 
to attempt to complete for this course. For this segment specifically, I decided to focus on the 
development and improvement of the search function feature alongside the resource addition and update 
functions. These pieces are included in my portfolio because they fulfill the automation segment of the 
project. Being able to automatically search for resources that are currently present as well as 
simultaneously add and update resources that the user has added displays some level of competence in the 
Algorithms and Data Structure piece of this course. I believe the pieces I’ve already completed and 
submitted are fairly well put together and meet the current requirements. I learned quite a bit considering 
my last attempt at this project. When I initially started, I felt as though perhaps my planning was poor 
and obviously my coding abilities weren’t as refined. Since then, I’ve been able to complete much more 
difficult assignments for my degree as well as at my position allowing me to somewhat flourish within 
the Programming space. 

Database:

This artifact was created back when I initially was working on this project but was never finalized and 
included in the rest of the project as I couldn’t get it to work. This piece is the MySQL connection using 
XAMPP that will save all records created/updated in the application as well as where all user data is housed. 
The reason this item has to be included in the overall project is because this is the piece that will showcase 
my ability in establishing a database connection as well as display aptitude and understanding in other 
languages/programs such as MySQL, XAMPP, and Apache. This piece was improved by finalizing the connection with 
the database ensuring that there is a database that will allow for the storage of data as needed. When it comes 
to the course objectives, I believe this does meet the course objectives I mentioned in Module One as this meets 
exactly what I indicated I wanted to do during the first week of this course. I learned quite a bit in using XAMPP, 
and Apache as for some reason during my time at SNHU, I’ve always had a bit of concern when it comes to establishing 
a connection between a database along with an application/program that I had also built/am perhaps enhancing. 
