Professional Assessment

When it come to the skills I’ve developed and learned throughout this course 
I believe all I have developed will in turn allow me to prosper during in my career field. 
I believe that working on this Capstone specifically showcases my ability to grow as initially 
I had certain troubles completing tasks within my project but ultimately after taking some classes 
and learning certain approaches (application development/database studies) I was able to successfully 
implement certain functions within this capstone such as the database connection to my application 
alongside the ability for the user to use a search bar to find whatever it is they were looking for. 
Honestly, this piece is a bit difficult to really dive into as I am already within the technical 
space and have been for quite some time. As I have previously mentioned, I am a Business Intelligence 
Engineer for Cigna and so I’ve had my experiences with databases and report development, but the true 
test came in the form of application development (skills I strictly learned on my own or through SNHU) 
and database development which I had to learn in my field. Overall, this program has increased my 
thoroughness, my ability to analyze, my ability to problem solve, as we as many other skills that I 
will ultimately need going forward in the CS space. 

In terms of what is in my portfolio, currently there are a total of ten scripts within my portfolio, 
each serving a critical purpose to the overall success of the application. From the application 
foundation itself to the SQL database connection, to individual scripts for the CRUD functions within 
the Resource segment of the application. In conjunction these pieces all come together to form an
application that allows users to sign up, add a resource, update said resource, and view other resources 
uploaded by other users (see screenshots in folder). I believe building something from the ground up rather 
than taking something that was already established and expanding on it really tested my technical capabilities 
as I had to map out (despite this being an older project I never finished), develop, test, fix, and do 
everything myself. Essentially this allowed me to showcase how one person can go through the Software 
Development cycle successfully regardless of how small the scale. 
